DATA SCIENCE LAB VIVA QUESTIONS & ANSWERS

1. numpy

      .numpy stands numerical python.

      .It is an open-source python library that provides support for scientific and mathematical computing.

      .It aims to provide an array object that is upto 50x faster than traditional python lists.

      .The array object in numpy is called ndarray.

2. array()

      .create numpy ndarray object by using the array() function.

      .numpy array is a multi-dimensional data structure that is the core of scientific computing in python.

      .All values in an array are homogenous(of the same data type).

3. shape()

      .The np.shape() gives a return of two-dimensional array in a pair of rows and columns tuple(rows,columns).

      .The shape of an array is the number of elements in each dimension.

4. zeros() 

      .The numpy zeros() function in python is used to create an array of specified shapes and types,with all elements initialized to                           
       zero.

      .The zeros() function takes three arguments and returns the array filled with zeros of floating values by default.

      .This function is used to generate an array containing zeros.

5. ones()

      .The numpy.ones() function is used to create a new array of given shape and type,filled with ones.
  
      .The ones() function is useful in situations where we need to create an array of ones with a specific shape and datatype,for example in matrix operations or in initializing an array
       with default values.

6. full()

      .The numpy.full() function is used to create a new array of the specified shape and type,filled with a specified value.

      .It return a new array of given shape and type,filled with fill_value.

7. eye()

      .eye() allows users to create an identity matrix of a specific size.

      .The eye() method creates a 2D array with 1s on the diagonal and 0s elsewhere.

8. random.rand()

      .Create an array of the given shape with random values from a uniform distribution over[0,1].

      .It gives random values in a given shape.
9. random.random()

      . The random is a module present in the NumPy library. 
       
      . This module contains the functions which are used for generating random numbers.
10. arange()

      . NumPy arange() is one of the array creation routines based on numerical ranges.

      . It creates an instance of ndarray with evenly spaced values and returns the reference to it. 

11. add()

      . add() is a function that performs element-wise addition on NumPy arrays.

      . numpy.add() function is used when we want to compute the addition of two arrays.

12. subtract()
 
      . The np.subtract() function returns an array containing the result of element-wise subtraction between two arrays or between an array and a scalar value.

13. multiply()

      . numpy.multiply() function is used when we want to compute the multiplication of two array. 

14. sqrt()

      . In NumPy, the . sqrt() method is used to calculate the positive square root of a number or the elements of an array. 

15. dot()

      . In NumPy, the . dot() method computes the dot product of two arrays. 

      . For 1-D arrays, it provides a scalar value. When both arrays are 2-D, it performs matrix multiplication, resulting in a new 2-D array.

16. sum()

      . The numpy.sum() function is available in the NumPy package of Python.

      . This function is used to compute the sum of all elements, the sum of each row, and the sum of each column of a given array.

17. reshape()

      . Reshaping means changing the shape of an array.

      . The shape of an array is the number of elements in each dimension. By reshaping we can add or remove dimensions or change number of elements in each dimension.

18. Scipy

      . SciPy is a scientific computation library that uses NumPy underneath.

      . SciPy stands for Scientific Python. It provides more utility functions for optimization, stats and signal processing. 
     
      . Like NumPy, SciPy is open source so we can use it freely.

19. linalg

      . The numpy. linalg module provides a basic set of linear algebra functions, such as matrix multiplication, matrix inversion, determinant calculation, 
        eigenvalues, and eigenvectors. On the other hand, the scipy.

      . linalg module is an extension of numpy.

20. svd

      .  svd() function is used to compute the factor of an array by Singular Value Decomposition.

      .  Performs the Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) on a matrix, breaking it down into singular vectors and singular values.

21. sigma()

     . A sigma (∑) is a Summation operator.

     . It evaluates a certain expression many times, with slightly different variables, and returns the sum of all those expressions.

22. diag()

     . The diag() method either creates a new array with the given 1D array as its diagonal elements or it extracts the diagonal from the given ndarray.

23. pinv()

     .  The 'pinv()' function returns the Moore-Penrose Pseudo Inverse of a matrix. The 'inv()' function executes at faster speed. The 'pinv()' function starts at slower speed.